---
layout:     page
title:      "On Hiring"
date:       2015-01-21 1:02:02
categories:
---

Weld (where I’m the designer) has been looking to build the team for the last year. Last month we got serious about hiring a designer and some engineers. That meant reaching out to all of our collective networks to source candidates. That is a lot of email.

I was tasked with figuring out what kind of designer would best serve us. This felt like a difficult task at first blush. I remembered [Brad Ellis’s Talk](https://vimeo.com/60224584) and thought maybe I’d need someone to fit in and make me “complete” (or “complete me”, if you will).

That started me on a course to try to list out all of the responsibilities the role would need to fill. Then a competing list of skills I’d like to improve from that list. I think it speaks volumes that I was immediately drawn to choose a new designer based on wanting to learn new skills. We at Weld like to learn, it is a huge part of our culture.

### The network had mixed results

We had great success finding some fantastic engineering candidates. I think since the engineer role is more defined as a profession one understands it is easier to source. That seems to lead to quick, decisive hiring.

Most people really don’t understand the role of designers in a startup. My parents being two of those “most people”. I think this makes hiring an odd process - I know it is even hard for me to articulate the skills a candidate should possess.

I had ~5 leads on designers from my network. They were all dead ends, either too far up the Product or UX designer scale, or simply not into the idea of rolling up their sleeves to do the startup thing.

The delay gave me time to think about who/what I want to be in my designer role. Over time, I started to think about what is best for the company, not what would serve the role of a traditional design team. Maybe we need a second me, able to divide and conquer anywhere in the design stack. Honestly, that sounded harder to find than a compliment.

### Now

I’m starting to lean toward a candidate that possesses, on the surface, a carbon copy of my skills. Removing myself (as much as I could) from the decision I was able to see clearly that the best thing for the business is to ship features.

The fastest way to ship is to have another maker who has is also familiar with the traditional UX process. We are in a season of the company where shipping is the make-or-break point. I think that I’m convinced. So the quest continues...
